Tutorial on how to get your own marker tracking system to run in 4 steps.

= 1. TIY software installation =
Before installing the hardware, you should start installing the software and getting familiar with it. 

Go to [http://code.google.com/p/tiy/wiki/InstallationOnWindows InstallationOnWindows] to see how to install the TIY library *and examples* on Windows, or [http://code.google.com/p/tiy/wiki/InstallationOnLinux InstallationOnLinux] for Linux systems respectively.

= 2. First software tests =
To get a first impression of the software and check if everything works fine, you should start the _client_ and _server_ program and play with the _config`_`run`_`parameters.xml_ configuration file.

On Linux you have to change the _<keyboard`_`device`_`id>_ field in the run configuration file to define your keyboard before starting the _/usr/local/tiy/client_ and _/usr/local/tiy/server_ programs (see therefore _/user/include/tiy/inputDevice/unix/!LinuxDevice`_`README.txt_). 

On Windows systems you can start _C:/tiy/bin/tiy/client.exe_ and _C:/tiy/bin/tiy/server.exe_ without any preconfigurations.

Two recorded stereo videos should show up and data send from the server to the client. Detected 3D points are marked by a small black circle in the middle of the white shining marker balls and detected objects by a big circle in the middle of the first marker of every object.

The example programs have different features that can be configured by editing the _config`_`run`_`parameters.xml_ file in the same directory as the programs. Although the options should be self-explaining and are commented, try some changes.

= 3. Camera setup and configuration ==
The next step is to set up the camera system and configure it in order to have a real stereo input for the TIY software instead of recorded videos.

All steps are explained in the [http://code.google.com/p/tiy/wiki/CameraSetUp CameraSetUp] section.

If everything worked well, you can put markers in the sight of the cameras, start the _server_ program and should see the small black circle in the middle of the white shining markers. That means, they are detected correctly as 3D points.

= 4. Marker object setup and configuration ==
Now that the system works, you can start attaching markers to objects you want to track and configure them.

Both steps are explained in the [http://code.google.com/p/tiy/wiki/ObjectSetUp ObjectSetUp] section.


Once you succesfully went through all the steps, you can download the souce code of the _client_ program from the [http://code.google.com/p/tiy/downloads/list Downloads] section and integrate it in your own software to use the 3D object data.